---
title: "log 07-2021"
date: 2021-08-11T11:54:59+09:00
draft: false
---


### Thu. 29
- meeting w/ mm yo takasan 8am
- thesis
  - check if [this preprint](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.12693) should be added to the reference
    - they discuss the perfect magnetic conductors instead of the conventional perfect electric ones.
    - path integral (worldline) formalism is adopted.
    - generalisation to higher dimensions


### Wed. 28
- arxiv check
- thesis
  - [x] fig: PFA ~> issue [#25](https://github.com/DaigoOUE/PhD/issues/25)
    - auxiliary fields localised at the boundaries
    - the Feynman propagator represents the electromagnetic fields propagating between the boundaries
    - the Casimir energy = the free energy
  - ch: corrugation
    - [x] fig: stable-unstable
    - [x] par: quasistatic approx. ~> issue [#33](https://github.com/DaigoOUE/PhD/issues/33)
      - SPP dominates the force this would be a good approx.
      - allows semi-analytical evaluation 


### Tue. 27
Gaikokusen 330 JPY
SPIE membership 20 USD

- arxiv check
- thesis
  - [x] ch: PFA
- [x] prep. afternoon meeting
- meeting w/ mm yo kitamura 1pm
- [x] rearrange the arxiv checklist above in a table form
- [x] prepare arxiv check repository
  - 1 issue per interesting article 
    - label: keywords
    - milestone: research area
    - project: cond-mat? quant-ph?

### Mon. 26
Gaikokusen 330 JPY, Grammarly 144 USD

- arxiv check
- e-typing 280
- phd thesis
  - [x] fig: plasmonic systems
  - [x] fig: single interface
  - [x] ch: plasmonics
- meeting w/ john kun 5pm
- grammarly plugin for overleaf
- todo => craft


### Fri. 23
- comb w/ nishikawa 9am
- Meeting w/ nishikawa mm 11am
- Meeting w/ mm yo 1pm
- Meeting w/ tamaki 5pm 
- phd thesis
  - casimir sum and Lifshitz formula
    - [x] overview: original works by Casimir
    - [x] deriving Lishtiz formula: from explicit dispersion to implicit
      - review several methods
      - follow mathematically rigorous spectral sum method
      - casimir sum or Lifshitz formula?
        - if the dispersion is available or not
        - numerical evaluation


### Thu. 22
- phd thesis:
  - single interface
    - [x] boundary condition
    - [x] transfer matrix
    - [x] scattering matrix
    - [x] dispersion relation
      - explicit form available
    - [x] double interfaces
      - transfer and scattering matrices
      - thin film
- Nozaki-Matsuo Group meeting 1pm
  - TK presentation 
    - What happens if Rashba and Dresselhaus are comparable?
    - Kondo effect on spin currents

### Wed. 21 
- intro. vim markdown
- arxiv check
- phd thesis: Plasmonics
        

### Tue. 20
- comput. club 10am
- academist-cf meeting 1:30pm
- arc/t 3pm
- meta poster 4:35pm
- meeting mm yo tk sato 5pm

    
    

### Mon. 19
- faces of optics: photo shoot
- phd thesis
  - effective medium reference
    - j. c. maxwell garnett, phil. trans. r. soc. london 203, 385 (1904)
  - smith purcell
    - original
      - s j smith & e m purcell, phys rev 92, 1069 (1953)
    - microwave
    - uv
  - cerenkov radiation from our superluminal grating reminds of Smith--Purcell radiation in that the induced surface currents play important roles
    - sr radiation: swift electrons induced surface current on metallic and dielectric gratings [Refs.]
    
  - reconsider Floquet Lindblad
    - adiabatic drive:
      - E. B. Davies and H. Spohn, J. Stat. Phys. 19 (1978), 511.
      - R. Alicki, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 12 (1979), L103.
    - Floquet theory
      - H. -P. Breuer and F. Petruccione, Phys. Rev. A 55 (1997), 3101.
      - S. Kohler, T. Dittrich and P. H ̈anggi, Phys. Rev. E 55 (1999), 300
    


### Sat. 17
- canonical theory of geometric optics
- arxiv check 

### Fri. 16
- Frank Tamm formula
- ithems new kom 9:50am
  - casimir and cerenkov BEC
  - landau zener problem is simlar to the beam splitter etx in quantum optics
- meeting w/ mm yo 1pm
- meeting w/ john kun 5pm
- phd thesis
  - PFA: derivative expansion
  - effective medium references  
  if the structure is fine or thin enough,
  it is homogenised by the electromagnetic field
  - smith purcell effect: cerenkov type radiation from the swift charge near a grating 
  - cerenkov:
  Tamm and Frank studied the radiation from a charged particle traveling at a constant velocity, 
  which is also known as Tamm problem.
  They found the radiation power by integrating the Poynting vector over a cylinder enclosing the particle trajectory.
  They show the radiation power per travel length is given by  
  "Frank Tamm formula".  
  where we can find the power become finite if and only if the particle velocity exceeds the speed of light.
  In our case,
  we can calculate the radiation intensity (power per unit area) by integrating the Poynting vector over two surfaces above and below the modulated boundary,
  We can find that the radiation power become finite if and only if the grating velocity exceed that of light.
  This is consistent with the Frank Tamm formula.
  - "temporal Fourier transform"
  - see [this paper](https://www.osapublishing.org/ao/abstract.cfm?uri=ao-59-35-11146) for the derivation of frank tamm formula, cerenkov radiation and smith purcell radiation.
  


### Thu. 15
- arxiv check
- arrange Oketani-san seminar
- Nozaki-Matsuo Group meeting 1pm:4pm
- phd thesis
  - PFA: derivative expansion
- radiation from thin current sheet
  

### Wed. 14
- ithems new kom prep.
- macbook battery repair
- phd thesis


### Tue. 13
- phd thesis
- mm Kiban B meeting
- arxiv check


### Mon. 12
- arxiv check
- [x] expense spreadsheet
  - to Olabisi (Cc: Juraci)
- meeting w/ mm nishikawa 10am
  - [x] REF in the top slide
  - [x] light font for the authors
- phd thesis
- [x] META materials slide To ITHEMS Working group
- meeting w/ mm jf nishikawa 4pm


### Fri. 9
- PhD thesis
  - abstract
  - toc
- arxiv check 

- PhD thesis
  - Lifshitz formula FIG
- meeting w/ yo mm
  - radiation from anomalous electric current in the valley-rotation coupled materials
  - motion induced spin transport
  - NEGF-like formulation of optical forces
  - ensemble of spins coupled with a rigid body rotation
    - rigid body rotation can be described by Schwinger bosons
    - which allow to map the toy model to Dicke model 


### Thu. 8
- Physics PG sympo.
- cp VCSG thesis


### Wed. 7
- Bordag 2005
- measure theory
- META poster prep.


### Tue. 6
- A. Arai "mathematical structure of QM"
- arxiv check
- [x] expense form
  - [x] signed by John
  - [x] email to Juraci
- META poster


### Mon. 5
- A. Arai "Hilbert space and quantum mechanics"
- [x] email to Juraci: expense form
- META poster



### Fri. 2
- [x] check the schedule pf PG symposium
- [x] arxiv check
- [x] purchase matsu-kiyo jelly
- meeting w/ mm yo 2pm
- Nozaki-Matsuo Gr. meeting 3pm
- PhD thesis
  - PFA 
    - expansion
    - Refs.
  - TDDF cp
- [x] shopping


### Thu. 1
- TDDF correction
    - please use ``\iint``
    - please use ``\cfrac``
    - Check Wood's paper citation
    - proof submitted
- arxiv check
- YO lecture on the top. mat. 10am
  - Mathematica tips
    - ``Module``
    - pure function
    - ``Sort``
- lecture for tenma-kun 4:30pm
- GengaQ san twitter space
  - [Yangian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yangian)
    - tool to generate solutions of the Yan-Baxter eq.
    - a kind of quantum groups
