---
title: "Log-2021-01"
date: 2021-01-31T00:07:06+09:00
draft: false
---

# Log-2021-01


## Fri. 29
- arxiv check 



## Thu. 28
- arxiv check 27 Jan.
  - Cherenkov radiation in photonic crystals?
  - Kirchhoff approximation in the diffraction problem
  - Schwinger effect by AC field?
- QF
  - energy loss: parameter sweep >> MATLAB code



## Wed. 27
- [x] arxiv check 22 Jan. ~ 26 Jan.
- [x] reply to Benjamin
  - working at the Japan Standard Time
- QF 
  - [x] Mathematica: plot the intensity of the beam in each diffraction order
  - [x] compare with the MATLAB result
    - radiation correction comes into the matching equations in a quite different way in the thin grating case, compared with the deformed boundary case
      - setting $\epsilon = \epsilon_1 (1 + \alpha \cos \mathbf{q}\cdot\mathbf{x})$ corresponds to the situation where we have infinitely thin but completely different materials at the boundary,
      - (at some points at the boundary $\epsilon \neq \epsilon^{\scriptscriptstyle{<}}, \epsilon^{\scriptscriptstyle{>}}$)
      - we cannot neglect the scattering from those points 
    - the matrix responsible for the surface current contribution in the thin grating case is quite different from that in the deformed boundary case.
      - it becomes larger as the order of diffraction increases, 
      $\check{\mathsf{L}}_{n,n'} \propto n$,
      in the thin grating case.
    - sign problem in MATLAB: we should not change the sign in front of $kz$ when the field is evanescent? 
      - the field is _not_ propagating in the $z$ direction and no need of sign flipping according to the frequency
  - [x] email >> #john & #Kun
    - how to choose relevant parameters for the comparison
    - postdoc plan
    - submit the manuscript by the end of March (because of the deadline: SPDR in RIKEN, JSPS PD)



## Tue. 26
- [x] reply to Benjamin
- [x] reply to Sato-san
- [x] email to Azuma-san (RIKEN)

- QF 
  - install MATLAB Bioinformatics Toolbox so that `suptitle` is ready for use
  - implement the energy loss calculation code



## Mon. 25
- arxiv check 18 Jan. ~ 21 Jan.
- postdoc research plan

- ARCT meeting
- QF install MATLAB in the MacPro



## Fri. 22 â˜”ï¸Ž
- email
- arxiv check: 14 Jan. ~ 15 Jan.
- check #mm ã•ã‚“paper where deriving the spin diffusion equation w/ a source term
- QF calc. 
  - radiative correction >> Mathematica: seems to be succeededðŸŽ‰
  - spatiotemporal modulation => asymmetric diffraction and Cherenkov radiation
- QF meeting w/ John and Kun
  - compare the infinitely thin grating with my calculation
- email to Sato-san (Ibaraki Univ)


## Thu. 21 â˜¼
8:30 ~ 10:00

- email
  - Prof. T. Ishihara
  - Prof. R. Saito

11:00 ~ 13:34

- Kretschmann Transfer matrix calc.

15:00 ~ 16:04

- meeting w/ R. Saito Group

17:00 ~ 18:40

- QF calc. Update


## Wed. 20 â˜¼ 
8:40 ~ 10:00

- seminar rehearsal

11:00 ~ 12:00

- reply to emails...done
- seminar slide check

15:00 ~ 17:00

- seminar at R. Saito group (Tohoku U)



## Tue. 19 â˜¼
10:00 ~ 14:00

- JPS abstract...submitted
- seminar slide prep.


18:00 ~

- QF meeting w/ Kun & John...postponed
- the rehearsal of the seminar presentation



## Mon. 18 â˜¼
9:00 ~ 12:30

- seminar prep. iPad memo >> keynote slide
  - plan: overview + outline,
  scattering theory,
  inverse Faraday effect,
  SG effect
  - eqs. >> slides...done


14:00 ~

- seminar prep.: speaking to plan 
  - sca. th. >> EM fld.
  - EM fld. >> opt. AM >> inv. Faraday
  - inv. Faraday >> spin diff. eq. >> spin acc., current

15:30 ~

- QF meeting prep. 
- arxiv check (14,15 Jan.)


## Fri. 15 â˜¼
8:00 ~ 13:00

- submit AOP review

15:00 ~

- academist-reseaerchers tea/coffee time

17:00

- email >> John & Kun to fix the date of the next meeting


## Thu. 14
15:00 ~

- academist-reseaerchers tea/coffee time


## Wed. 13 â˜
10:00 ~ 12:00

- QF review the calc.: the source term

13:00 ~ 16:00

- arxiv check (13th Jan.)
- AOP review

16:00 ~ 17:00

- meeting w/ Kun



## Tue. 12 â˜ƒ
- arxiv check (~ 11th Jan.)
  - [Casimir light in dispersive nanophotonics](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.01120):
    - dynamical Casimir effect in temporally modulated dispersive media,
    - efficient emission of phonon polariton in SiC,
    - linear Response [EM field in dispersive media + perturbation (= temporal modulation)],
    - Fourier transform of modulation profile >> double freq. Response func. $\Delta \chi(\omega,\omega')$
- QF ms Update
  - freq.-amp. spectrogram >> FIG. 4
  - spectrogram $W(\omega_\mathrm{in},\Omega)$ w.r.t various $g$ >> FIG. 5
    - not good idea maybe
  - discussion of the source term which can be neglected non-relativistic limit
- handwriting note >> Kun...done



## Mon. 11
- meeting w/ Kun 9am CST = 10am JST
  - the origin of Cherenkov-like radiation
- meeting w/ t.naito 3pm
  - DFT: Hohenberg-Kohn theorem, Kohn-Sham scheme
  - electron dipole moment


## Fri. 8
- Shimomura 
- review AOP



## Thu. 7
- arxiv check (cond-mat ~6/Jan., quant-ph ~6/Jan.)
- meeting w/ Kun 11am ~
  - generate spectrogram $W(\omega_\mathrm{in},\Omega)$ for various $g$
  - discussion of the scaling: Sec. IV -> Sec. II
  - Why we are missing the Cherenkov-like radiation?
    - because we neglect the discontinuity of the magnetic field (the electric current due to the time variation of the permittivity $\dot{\epsilon}_{\mathbf{x},z}$)
    - in the infinitely thin grating case, we cannot neglect the discontinuity because the speed of modulation is quite fast (even exceed the speed of light
    - while in my calculation (the dynamically deformed surface) the speed of modulation ($\dot{\epsilon}_{\mathbf{x},z} \propto A\Omega$) is quite small ($A$ is small) and cannnot exceed the speed of light
- æœ¬å½“ã«æ¯Žåº¦ã‚¿ãƒ¡ã«ãªã£ã¦ã¦ã€ç ”ç©¶èƒ½åŠ›ãƒ»å­¦ç¿’èƒ½åŠ›ã‚’æ·±åŒ–ã•ã›ã‚‹ä¸Šã§ã¯ã™ã”ãã‚ã‚ŠãŒãŸã„ã‚“ã ã‘ã©ã€ç›®ã®å‰ã®ç ”ç©¶ãŒå…¨ç„¶é€²ã¾ãªãã¦æœ¬å½“ã«å›°ã£ã¦ã„ã‚‹ç¬‘
  - ã“ã‚Œã€ä¿®å£«ã®æ™‚ã«ã‚‚å…¨ãåŒã˜ã‚ˆã†ãªçµŒé¨“ã‚’ã—ãŸã€‚ã“ã®äººã¨ã¯æº€è¶³ãªç ”ç©¶ã‚’ä¸€ç·’ã«ã§ããªã„(è‡ªåˆ†ã®èƒ½åŠ›ãŒè¶³ã‚Šãªã„ã‹ã‚‰ãã®äººã‚’æº€è¶³ã•ã›ã‚‰ã‚Œã‚‹ã‚¯ã‚ªãƒªãƒ†ã‚£ã‚’å‡ºã›ãªã„)ã¨æ€ã£ã¦ã€å¹½éœŠå­¦ç”Ÿã«ãªã£ã¦1äººã§ç ”ç©¶ã—ã¯ã˜ã‚ãŸã®ã ã£ãŸã€‚
  - ä¿®å£«ã¯é©å½“ã«ã‚„ã£ã¦ã¦å–ã‚ŒãŸã‹ã‚‰ãã‚Œã§ã‚ˆã‹ã£ãŸã‘ã©ã€PhDã¯ãã†ã¯è¡Œã‹ãªãã†ã ã‹ã‚‰éžå¸¸ã«ã¤ã‚‰ã„ðŸ˜‡ãœã¤ã¼ã†



## Wed. 6
- arxiv check (cond-mat, ~ 5 Jan.)
- email >> Sato-san (Ibaraki U)...done
- QF ms Update



## Tue. 5
- discussion w/ jf
- email >> Prof. R. Saito (Tohoku U)
- QF 
  - freq-freq spectrogram >> ms
  - Mathematica >> freq-amp spectrogram >> ms
- arxiv check



## Sun. 3
- abstract (seminar at Saito lab in Tohoku Univ.) preparation...done
